Comment[ArrayExpressAccession]	E-MTAB-1733					
MAGE-TAB Version	1.1					
Investigation Title	HPA RNA-seq normal tissues					
Comment[Submitted Name]	HPA RNA-seq normal tissues					
Experiment Description	RNA-seq was performed of tissue samples from 95 human individuals representing 27 different tissues in order to determine tissue-specificity of all protein-coding genes.					
Experimental Design	organism part comparison design	ex_vivo_design				
Comment[AEExperimentType]	RNA-seq of coding RNA					
Comment[AEExperimentDisplayName]	RNA-seq of coding RNA from tissue samples of 95 human individuals representing 27 different tissues in order to determine tissue-specificity of all protein-coding genes					
Experimental Factor Name	organism part					
Experimental Factor Type	organism part					
Quality Control Type	biological replicate					
Quality Control Term Source REF	EFO					
Public Release Date	2013-12-31					
Person Last Name	Hallstrom					
Person First Name	Bjorn					
Person Mid Initials	M					
Person Email	bjorn.hallstrom@scilifelab.se					
Person Phone						
Person Address						
Person Affiliation	"Science for Life Laboratory, Stockholm, Sweden"					
Person Roles	submitter					
PubMed ID						
Publication Author List	"Fagerberg L, Hallstrom BM, Uhlen M"					
Publication Title	Defining the human tissue-specific proteome using transcriptomics and antibody-based profiling					
Publication Status	in preparation					
Protocol Name	P-MTAB-33470	P-MTAB-33471	P-MTAB-33472	P-MTAB-33473	P-MTAB-33474	P-MTAB-33475
Protocol Type	growth protocol	nucleic acid extraction protocol	nucleic acid library construction protocol	nucleic acid sequencing protocol	high throughput sequence alignment protocol	normalization data transformation protocol
Protocol Description	"The use of human tissue samples was approved by the Uppsala Ethical Review Board (Reference #2011/473). Tissues samples, collected within the infrastructure of an established biobank, were embedded in Optimal Cutting Temperature (O.C.T.) compound  and stored at -80C. A hematoxylin-eosin (HE) stained frozen section (4um) was prepared from each sample using a cryostat and the CryoJane Tape-Transfer System (Instrumedics, St. Louis, MO, USA). Each slide was examined by a pathologist to ensure proper tissue morphology. Three sections (10um) were cut from each frozen tissue block and collected into a tube for subsequent RNA extraction."	"The tissue was homogenized mechanically using a 3 mm steel grinding ball (VWR). Total RNA was extracted from cell lines and tissue samples using the RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to the manufacturers instructions. The extracted RNA samples were analyzed using either an Experion automated electrophoresis system (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA, USA) with the standard-sensitivity RNA chip or an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer system(Agilent Biotechnologies, Palo Alto, USA) with the RNA 6000 Nano Labchip Kit. Only samples of high-quality RNA (RNA Integrity Number 7.5) were used in the following mRNA sample preparation for sequencing."	Illumina Truseq RNA v2	Clustered on cBot and sequenced on Illumina HiSeq 2000/2500 according to manufacturers instructions. 	"Raw reads were trimmed for low quality ends with the software sickle, using a phred quality threshold of 20. All reads shorter than 54 bp after the trimming were discarded. The processed reads were mapped to the GRCh37 version of the human genome with Tophat v2.0.3. Potential PCR duplicates were eliminated using the MarkDuplicates module of Picard 1.77."	FPKM (fragments per kilobase of exon model per million mapped reads) values were calculated using Cufflinks v2.0.2.
Protocol Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO
Protocol Hardware				Illumina HiSeq 2000		
Term Source Name	EFO					
Term Source File	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo					
Comment[SecondaryAccession]	ERP003613					
Comment[SequenceDataURI]	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/ERR315325-ERR315495					
SDRF File	E-MTAB-1733.sdrf.txt					
